README.md, before:


# elfspirit

[![arch](https://img.shields.io/badge/arch-i386%20%7C%20amd64-orange)](#)
[![platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Linux%20%7C%20macOS-orange)](#)
[![libc](https://img.shields.io/badge/libc-3.31%20%7C%203.32-lightgrey)](#) 
[![ld](https://img.shields.io/badge/ld-3.31%20%7C%203.32-lightgrey)](#)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/liyansong2018/elfspirit)](https://github.com/liyansong2018/elfspirit/blob/main/LICENSE)

**elfspirit** is a useful program that parse, manipulate and camouflage ELF files. It provides a variety of functions, including parsing ELF like `readelf`, editing ELF like `010 editor`, adding section or segment, pathing ELF like `patchelf`, infecting ELF, deleting the section header table to increase the difficulty of reverse engineering.

**elfspirit is not just a replacement for these tools, it provides even more powerful functionality about ELF. Its ultimate goal is to help hackers easily edit every byte of ELF.**

 Related work: You might like [LIEF](https://github.com/lief-project/LIEF) and [libelfmaster](https://github.com/elfmaster/libelfmaster) more. Compared to [patchelf](https://github.com/NixOS/patchelf), elfspirit provides a more flexible editing environment.
## Building

**elfspirit** can be installed easily:

```shell
make
```

## Usage

### Analyze ELF format, like readelf

```shell
$ elfspirit parse -H myelf
 [+] ELF32 Header
     0 ~ 15bit ----------------------------------------------
     Magic:  7f 45 4c 46 01 01 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
            ELF E  L  F  |  |  |  |  |
                  32/64bit  |  |  |  |
            little/big endian  |  |  |
                         os type  |  |
                        ABI version  |
            byte index of padding bytes
     16 ~ 63bit ---------------------------------------------
     [ 0] e_type:                     0x2 (An executable file)
     [ 1] e_machine:                  0x3 (Sun Microsystems SPARC)
     [ 2] e_version:                  0x2 (Unkown)
     [ 3] e_entry:                 0x1077 (Entry point address)
     [ 4] e_phoff:                   0x34 (Start of program headers)
     [ 5] e_shoff:                 0x35d4 (Start of section headers)
     [ 6] e_flags:                  (nil)
     [ 7] e_ehsize:                  0x34 (Size of this header)
     [ 8] e_phentsize:               0x20 (Size of program headers)
     [ 9] e_phnum:                    0xb (Number of program headers)
     [10] e_shentsize:               0x28 (Size of section headers)
     [11] e_shnum:                   0x1d (Number of section headers)
     [12] e_shstrndx:                0x1c (Section header string table index)
```

### Freely edit every byte of ELF, not just 010 editor

We can easily edit any byte of ELF files using elfspirit, such as removing the stack non executable feature (`-z noexecstack`) of executable binary files.

The original PT_GNU-STACK segment only had read and write permissions (6=rw), as shown below

![1](pictures/1.png)

You can use elfspirit to grant executable permissions to the PT_GNU-STACK segment. Just set the parameters (i, j) to the coordinates of the target.

```shell
$ elfspirit edit -P -i11 -j6 -m7 myelf 
6->7
```

Wasn't this process a piece of cake?

![2](pictures/2.png)


### Patch IoT firmware for IDA

As is well known, the firmware of many embedded devices is bare metal programs without ELF header. Therefore, elfspirit can be used to add ELF header information, making it convenient to use reverse engineering tools such as IDA to decompile it.

```shell
# Add elf header for IoT firmware.bin
$ ./elfspirit addelfinfo -a arm -m 32 -e big -b 0x18308000 ~/Documents/app.bin
```

In addition, elfspirit also has the function of splicing firmware. A common situation we encounter is that IoT firmware has many bins stored in different partitions. They share an address space, and if you only analyze a single bin, you will find that the function jumps to an unfamiliar address. At this point, we need to use `elfspirit join`

```shell
# Connect multi-bin
$ ./elfspirit joinelf -a arm -m 32 -e big -c ./configure/bininfo.json ~/Documents/app.bin
```

### Add or delete a section

Sometimes we need to limit the size of an ELF file, so deleting a useless section (such as. eh_frame) is a good solution.

```shell
# delete one section
$ ./elfspirit delsec -n .eh_frame_hdr hello
# delete multi-sections
$ ./elfspirit delsec -c configure/multi_sec_name hello
```
Strip
```
$ ./elfspirit delsec -n .strtab hello
```

### ELF file infection or static injection

ELF file infection is a broad concept, which may only involve modifying specific bytes or modifying the entire section. Let's take a static injection as an example.

#### Scheme 1

How to make a Linux program load a malicious *.so file? Perhaps you would say that hijacking through DLL/SO is sufficient. If you have debugging permissions for the target program, this method is indeed feasible. But the environment is not always so friendly.

**elfspirit** provides the ability for static injection, injecting a piece of code (commonly known as shellcode) through file infection to load a so.

```shell
$ ./elfspirit injectso -n .eh_frame -f libdemo_x32.so -c offset.json -v 2.31 ./testcase/hello_x86
 [+] architecture: x86
 [+] .eh_frame  offset: 0x2060  viraddr: 0x2060
 [+] .eh_frame: U����(�E�libd�E�emo_�E�x32.�E�so
 [+] entry point address: 0x1090 -> 0x2060
 [+] LOAD offset: 0x2000        vaddr: 0x2000
 [+] LOAD flag: 0x4 -> 0x5
 [+] create ./testcase/hello_x86_new
```
We can see that the target process has already loaded the `libdemo_x32.so` 
```shell
$ cat /proc/2507769/maps
565c9000-565ca000 r--p 00000000 08:01 2726664      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/hello_x86_new
...
56709000-5672b000 rw-p 00000000 00:00 0            [heap]
f7da5000-f7dc2000 r--p 00000000 08:01 3155369      /usr/lib32/libc-2.32.so
f7dc2000-f7f1a000 r-xp 0001d000 08:01 3155369      /usr/lib32/libc-2.32.so
...
f7f91000-f7f93000 rw-p 00000000 00:00 0
f7fa7000-f7fa8000 r--p 00000000 08:01 2726661      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/libdemo_x32.so
f7fa8000-f7fa9000 r-xp 00001000 08:01 2726661      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/libdemo_x32.so
f7fa9000-f7faa000 r--p 00002000 08:01 2726661      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/libdemo_x32.so
```

#### Scheme 2

The static injection feature provided by elfspirit may depend on a specific version of the Linux loader, so we have provided some configuration files: configure/offsetjson, in preparation for future gcc/ld versions.

Fortunately, we have an alternative solution. Directly load malicious so by modifying the .dynamic section. For example, we can add so directly in the .dynamic section through the edit module provided by elfspirit.

![3](pictures/3.png)

Edit `main`

```shell
$ elfspirit edit -L -i27 -j0 -m1 main
0->1
$ elfspirit edit -L -i27 -j2 -ftest.so main
0x0->0x1ba8
```

We have successfully linked a new so!

![4](pictures/4.png)

### Patch ELF

* Change the ELF interpreter ("the dynamic loader/linker") of executables:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --set-interpreter [-s]<new interpreter> ELF
  ```

* Change the `RPATH` or `RUNPATH` of executables and libraries:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --set-rpath [-s]<rpath> ELF
  elfspirit --set-runpath [-s]<rpath> ELF
  ```

* Add section or segment of executables and libraries:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --add-section [-z]<size> ELF
  elfspirit --add-segment [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

### Infect ELF (experimental)

* Silvio text segment infectction technic:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --infect-silvio [-s]<shellcode> [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

* Reverse text segment infectction technic (Skeksi):

  ```shell
  elfspirit --infect-skeksi [-s]<shellcode> [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

* Data segment infectction technic (Skeksi):

  ```shell
  elfspirit --infect-data [-s]<shellcode> [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

## Limitations

**elfspirit** is a work in process, and some things still aren't implemented. Following is the current list of know limitations.

-  `addsec`  The location of the added section only supports a specific offset address of ELF file, such as existing section offset, section header table offset and the end of the file. This is because if we add a section in another location, the program may not work properly.
-  `injectso` is an experimental binary, which mainly implements the idea of static injection. The current version only passes the verification test on libc-2.31/2.32. Therefore, we specially provided a JSON file to load the relevant offset addresses of other versions of libc.

We run **elfspirit** using:

- Ubuntu 20.04 / Kali Linux 2020.4
- gcc 10.2.1
- libc-2.31/2.32

Currently, this is the only supported environment in elfspirit injection module. Other environments may also work, but we unfortunately do not have the manpower to investigate compatibility issues. **The other functional modules of elfspirit are not limited by the environment.** 

Due to the lack of support for object-oriented programming in C language and limited personal abilities, there may be some redundant code in this project. Please understand.

## License

**elfspirit** is open source software. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.

Commit message:

Add wiki for elfspirit and update some descriptions

README.md, after:


# elfspirit

[![arch](https://img.shields.io/badge/arch-i386%20%7C%20amd64-orange)](#)
[![platform](https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Linux%20%7C%20macOS-orange)](#)
![GitHub Tag](https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/liyansong2018/elfspirit)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/liyansong2018/elfspirit)](https://github.com/liyansong2018/elfspirit/blob/main/LICENSE)

**elfspirit** is a useful program that parse, manipulate and camouflage ELF files. It provides a variety of functions, including parsing ELF like `readelf`, editing ELF like `010 editor`, adding section or segment, pathing ELF like `patchelf`, infecting ELF, deleting the section header table to increase the difficulty of reverse engineering.

 Related work: You might like [LIEF](https://github.com/lief-project/LIEF) and [libelfmaster](https://github.com/elfmaster/libelfmaster) more. Compared to [patchelf](https://github.com/NixOS/patchelf), elfspirit provides a more flexible editing environment.

 **elfspirit is not just a replacement for these tools, it provides even more powerful functionality about ELF. Its ultimate goal is to help hackers easily edit every byte of ELF. Please see [elfspirit wiki](https://github.com/liyansong2018/elfspirit/wiki) for more details.**


## Building

**elfspirit** can be installed easily:

```shell
make
```

## Usage

### Analyze ELF format, like readelf

```shell
$ elfspirit parse -H myelf
 [+] ELF32 Header
     0 ~ 15bit ----------------------------------------------
     Magic:  7f 45 4c 46 01 01 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
            ELF E  L  F  |  |  |  |  |
                  32/64bit  |  |  |  |
            little/big endian  |  |  |
                         os type  |  |
                        ABI version  |
            byte index of padding bytes
     16 ~ 63bit ---------------------------------------------
     [ 0] e_type:                     0x2 (An executable file)
     [ 1] e_machine:                  0x3 (Sun Microsystems SPARC)
     [ 2] e_version:                  0x2 (Unkown)
     [ 3] e_entry:                 0x1077 (Entry point address)
     [ 4] e_phoff:                   0x34 (Start of program headers)
     [ 5] e_shoff:                 0x35d4 (Start of section headers)
     [ 6] e_flags:                  (nil)
     [ 7] e_ehsize:                  0x34 (Size of this header)
     [ 8] e_phentsize:               0x20 (Size of program headers)
     [ 9] e_phnum:                    0xb (Number of program headers)
     [10] e_shentsize:               0x28 (Size of section headers)
     [11] e_shnum:                   0x1d (Number of section headers)
     [12] e_shstrndx:                0x1c (Section header string table index)
```

### Freely edit every byte of ELF, not just 010 editor

We can easily edit any byte of ELF files using elfspirit, such as removing the stack non executable feature (`-z noexecstack`) of executable binary files.

The original PT_GNU-STACK segment only had read and write permissions (6=rw), as shown below

![1](pictures/1.png)

You can use elfspirit to grant executable permissions to the PT_GNU-STACK segment. Just set the parameters (i, j) to the coordinates of the target.

```shell
$ elfspirit edit -P -i11 -j6 -m7 myelf 
6->7
```

Wasn't this process a piece of cake?

![2](pictures/2.png)


### Patch IoT firmware for IDA

As is well known, the firmware of many embedded devices is bare metal programs without ELF header. Therefore, elfspirit can be used to add ELF header information, making it convenient to use reverse engineering tools such as IDA to decompile it.

```shell
# Add elf header for IoT firmware.bin
$ ./elfspirit addelfinfo -a arm -m 32 -e big -b 0x18308000 ~/Documents/app.bin
```

In addition, elfspirit also has the function of splicing firmware. A common situation we encounter is that IoT firmware has many bins stored in different partitions. They share an address space, and if you only analyze a single bin, you will find that the function jumps to an unfamiliar address. At this point, we need to use `elfspirit join`

```shell
# Connect multi-bin
$ ./elfspirit joinelf -a arm -m 32 -e big -c ./configure/bininfo.json ~/Documents/app.bin
```

### Add or delete a section/segment

Sometimes we need to limit the size of an ELF file, so deleting a useless section (such as. eh_frame) is a good solution.

```shell
# delete one section
$ ./elfspirit delsec -n .eh_frame_hdr hello
# delete multi-sections
$ ./elfspirit delsec -c configure/multi_sec_name hello
```
Strip
```
$ ./elfspirit delsec -n .strtab hello
```

### ELF file infection or static injection

ELF file infection is a broad concept, which may only involve modifying specific bytes or modifying the entire section. Let's take a static injection as an example.

#### Scheme 1

How to make a Linux program load a malicious *.so file? Perhaps you would say that hijacking through DLL/SO is sufficient. If you have debugging permissions for the target program, this method is indeed feasible. But the environment is not always so friendly.

**elfspirit** provides the ability for static injection, injecting a piece of code (commonly known as shellcode) through file infection to load a so.

```shell
$ ./elfspirit injectso -n .eh_frame -f libdemo_x32.so -c offset.json -v 2.31 ./testcase/hello_x86
 [+] architecture: x86
 [+] .eh_frame  offset: 0x2060  viraddr: 0x2060
 [+] .eh_frame: U����(�E�libd�E�emo_�E�x32.�E�so
 [+] entry point address: 0x1090 -> 0x2060
 [+] LOAD offset: 0x2000        vaddr: 0x2000
 [+] LOAD flag: 0x4 -> 0x5
 [+] create ./testcase/hello_x86_new
```
We can see that the target process has already loaded the `libdemo_x32.so` 
```shell
$ cat /proc/2507769/maps
565c9000-565ca000 r--p 00000000 08:01 2726664      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/hello_x86_new
...
56709000-5672b000 rw-p 00000000 00:00 0            [heap]
f7da5000-f7dc2000 r--p 00000000 08:01 3155369      /usr/lib32/libc-2.32.so
f7dc2000-f7f1a000 r-xp 0001d000 08:01 3155369      /usr/lib32/libc-2.32.so
...
f7f91000-f7f93000 rw-p 00000000 00:00 0
f7fa7000-f7fa8000 r--p 00000000 08:01 2726661      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/libdemo_x32.so
f7fa8000-f7fa9000 r-xp 00001000 08:01 2726661      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/libdemo_x32.so
f7fa9000-f7faa000 r--p 00002000 08:01 2726661      /home/lys/Documents/elf/testcase/libdemo_x32.so
```

#### Scheme 2

The static injection feature provided by elfspirit may depend on a specific version of the Linux loader, so we have provided some configuration files: configure/offsetjson, in preparation for future gcc/ld versions.

Fortunately, we have an alternative solution. Directly load malicious so by modifying the .dynamic section. For example, we can add so directly in the .dynamic section through the edit module provided by elfspirit.

![3](pictures/3.png)

Edit `main`

```shell
$ elfspirit edit -L -i27 -j0 -m1 main
0->1
$ elfspirit edit -L -i27 -j2 -ftest.so main
0x0->0x1ba8
```

We have successfully linked a new so!

![4](pictures/4.png)

### Patch ELF

* Change the ELF interpreter ("the dynamic loader/linker") of executables:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --set-interpreter [-s]<new interpreter> ELF
  ```

* Change the `RPATH` or `RUNPATH` of executables and libraries:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --set-rpath [-s]<rpath> ELF
  elfspirit --set-runpath [-s]<rpath> ELF
  ```

* Add section or segment of executables and libraries:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --add-section [-z]<size> ELF
  elfspirit --add-segment [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

### Infect ELF (experimental)

* Silvio text segment infectction technic:

  ```shell
  elfspirit --infect-silvio [-s]<shellcode> [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

* Reverse text segment infectction technic (Skeksi):

  ```shell
  elfspirit --infect-skeksi [-s]<shellcode> [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

* Data segment infectction technic (Skeksi):

  ```shell
  elfspirit --infect-data [-s]<shellcode> [-z]<size> ELF
  ```

## Limitations

**elfspirit** is a work in process, and some things still aren't implemented. Following is the current list of know limitations.

-  `addsec`  The location of the added section only supports a specific offset address of ELF file, such as existing section offset, section header table offset and the end of the file. This is because if we add a section in another location, the program may not work properly.
-  `injectso` is an experimental binary, which mainly implements the idea of static injection. The current version only passes the verification test on libc-2.31/2.32 (Ubuntu 20.04 / Kali Linux 2020.4). Therefore, we specially provided a JSON file to load the relevant offset addresses of other versions of libc.

We run **elfspirit** common function using :

- Ubuntu 22.04 / Kali Linux 2024.4

Other environments may also work, but we unfortunately do not have the manpower to investigate compatibility issues. **The other functional modules of elfspirit are not limited by the environment.** Due to the lack of support for object-oriented programming in C language and limited personal abilities, there may be some redundant code in this project. Please understand.

## License

**elfspirit** is open source software. See the `LICENSE` file for more details.
